Welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk a bit about something advanced and we haven't covered much in this
course and we definitely will in the next section but I want to get started with it so that even though
it might be new and confusing at first by the time we get into the next section we'll come back and
review exactly what we're doing.
I want to make this app more realistic in a real life app.
We wouldn't necessarily have these robots written like I have here in robots.
Yes I've just created this fall.
But in real life well we're not manually entering users.
We use something like an API.
And what that means.
Well we want when this Web site gets loaded to make a request somewhere out there in the world of the
Internet and grab these robots from a server where we can actually do that we have over here something
called Jason placeholder and you don't need to worry too much about it but they actually have a really
nice your owl that we can use and they return what we need a name or an ID and a user name.
The rest of the information well we don't really need it.
But as you can see just by typing in this you Arel I get this.
So using this we're going to make our app a little bit more realistic.
Let's get started.
If I close my CSSA file since we don't need them any more.
And let's close the rest of the tabs as well.
Looking at this app component we see that it is what we call a smart component like the search box or
car list that are just pure functions as you can see here.
Apt.
Yes actually has state a piece of data that describes our app and because they have state we call them
smart components.
And smart components tend to have this class syntax.
Now in real life when we start up this app this robots would actually be an empty array because there's
nothing there.
We haven't grabbed the users.
So most likely if I save this robots wouldn't display until I load the Web site and then as soon as
the Web site gets loaded I ask for the users from somewhere over the internet.
Somewhere hopefully here.
So let's do that.
Re-act comes with a few other things inside of components that we can use and they're called life cycle
methods.
And it looks something like this.
Don't get too overwhelmed.
These are just methods that we can use in here that comes with re-act and they're called lifecycle hooks
because what they do is if we run these it will automatically trigger when this app gets loaded on the
website.
Let me explain.
We see that we have three sections.
We have mounting updating and unmounting the way we act works is we do something called mounting.
When I click refresh here the app component this component right here gets mounted into the document
with the idea of route.
If we go back to our index that HMO file will our Web page is nothing but a div with an idea of root.
When we say we mount a component we're replacing this and adding our entire app that's mounting So mounting
is the start of the app now mounting these are the lifecycle hooks that get hit and there are in-order.
So the first thing is it checks Hey does this component have a constructor Bauld does have a constructor.
Yes.
OK then run this piece of code does it have components will mount.
No it doesn't then ignore it.
Does it have Rander Yes it has wrencher run this.
Does it have component did mount.
No it doesn't have component demarked ignored.
And it just runs through this every time.
It also has something called updating and that is whenever a component changes.
For example when we had the list well every time I typed something the cardless component gets re rendered
because we have new information the function receives new inputs.
Same with the input component.
So again within those components if we wanted to we can add component will receive prop's shook component
update so on and so forth.
And finally with unmounting is when a component is removed from a page for example if we change to a
different page here the component will mount the app component will get deleted from the page.
These are called lifecycle hooks because they get run every time a component does something and it comes
with react.
So you can just put them in into your class component and they'll automatically get triggered.
You don't have to worry about calling the let me demonstrate this.
We want to use component did mount which gets called after render.
This says that yes the app component is mounted on the web page and it's Sprenger that is it's displaying
something well we can do that by saying component did mount and because this is part of react.
Notice that I'm now using aero functions here.
Now I would think component Denn mount.
I can say console thought log
if I refresh this and open up the console you'll see that I have check if I refresh There you go that
was really quick.
But you see that that gets called automatically.
Even though I haven't said anything.
Using this we can do something interesting.
Now when component does mount I can say this dart set state to now have robots to the robots that we
get from natural Griffo.
If I do this and save let's refresh and see what happens.
It's really really fast but you see that we're getting our robots.
I am saying run the constructor with an empty array just to show you the order of execution here.
If I had a console log and we'll just say one here
will say two here and we'll just say three if I save this and open up the console I have 1 3 2 3 let's
just check the we have one Gerrans first then three which is Rander then two which is component did
mount and then three runs again.
Actually let's change this to actual words so that you see better what is actually happening.
If we save and refresh look at that we have a constructor that runs first then render then component
did mount just like this order.
But we now also have render.
Why did render run again.
If you remember we created the constructor we ran Brandur and then we updated the state and component
did MT.
So because we updated the state every time the state changes Remember we go to the lifecycle it's updating
Iran's render again so because it goes from an empty array to a robot's list render gets rerun and the
virtual Dom notices that there's a difference and repaint our Web browser to include the robot's vertical
knowing we just did.
We can remove this and finally make this more realistic.
Instead of using the robot's file I'm actually going to remove this and in here I'm going to show you
a cool way to grab this list from here.
I'm going to copy the link and I'm going to say fetch which we'll learn about in the next section.
We're just saying make this a sheet request and fetch receives this.
Again we're just saying go through here.
Then this is going to receive a response
and this response is Well this part is a little tricky.
You just have to get used to it.
Jason we just have to convert the response into again something that we'll talk about in the next session.
For now just you can copy and basis follow along.
We'll come back to this and explain what's happening.
And from here this said this on a new line so we know exactly what's happening.
We'll say then robots so far we can say users because in this case we're getting users.
And and here we can say
this says state robots to equal users.
And we have to make sure that we return this safe.
Let's see if that works.
Look at that.
Let's refresh and you see that little lag it is now working.
So in here we can actually make this smaller and reduce it to one line.
We should remember how to do that.
And we see that we're simply
updating state
after we fetch.
So we fetch whatever the users are.
We're getting a response.
We're doing some magic here with Jason which we'll talk about later.
And then we're getting the users and updating the users with set state so far refresh.
Again
if I don't do this let's say I just here don't do anything and return an empty object.
You see that I don't receive the robots I only receive the robots after I update with these users.
How cool is that.
All right.
That was a lot.
And this probably looks pretty scary to make you feel a little bit more comfortable because I'm using
fetch and there is nothing attached to it.
Does this mean that it's part of the window object.
Let's check if I open up the console and I do window Daut fetch.
Yeah look at that.
Fetch is a method on the window object.
It comes with all browsers now.
It is a tool for us to make requests.
Two servers and as you can see this is a server that returns for us when we do slash users a list of
users that we can use which is perfect for our wrap.
And finally you're wondering what if this was really slow or what if this took.
I don't know.
Five seconds.
And we had a whole ton of users.
Well in that case you can do something like an IF statement if robots don't lenth is zero.
In that case we can return an H1 that says loading
else we can just say return
this again is just javascript.
That's a beauty in Riyadh.
And you see how we get robots is not defined because it's this dot state DOT robots.
Again we're referring to the State of the app.
And here if I refresh let's just say that we're not updating the state and I'm going to just return
an empty object
while in that case I just get loading.
Very cool.
And this is how you build real ops with re-act you have a loading bar.
They can just add here make requests on component did mount and interact with components.
Very cool.
You know what we have ourselves our app.
There's one last thing I'm going to show you with react and you've learned the basics and react.
You can take this now to build any app that you want.
So one more thing to go.
One more little piece to get our re-act knowledge complete.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.